.. _dataverse-transfers:

=====================
Dataverse Integration
=====================

.. _dataverse-overview:

Overview
--------

`Dataverse`_ is an open source repository for research data. Archivematica can
be configured to use a Dataverse Repository as a Transfer Source Location. 
Dataverse Transfer Source Locations can be configured to display all available 
datasets or a subset of them.

Datasets are retrieved directly using the Dataverse API and processed like 
standard transfers, with some additional processing as described below.

Dataverse integration is supported by Archivematica version 1.8 and above, and
has been developed and tested using Dataverse version 4.8.6

*On this page*

* :ref:`Selecting Datasets for preservation <selecting-datasets>`
* :ref:`Dataset Contents <dataset-contents>`
* :ref:`Processing Dataverse datasets <processing-datasets>`
* :ref:`Dataverse METS file <dataverse-mets>`
* :ref:`AIP METS file <dataverse-aip-mets>`
* :ref:`Configuration <dataverse-configuration>`

.. _selecting-datasets:

Selecting Datasets for preservation
-----------------------------------

When a Dataverse Transfer Source Location is selected in the Transfer tab of 
the Dashboard, users can browse a list of available datasets. Selecting a 
directory icon will expand the view to display the list of files included in 
the dataset. Individual files can’t be selected for Transfer.

When a Dataverse dataset is selected, the transfer type ‘Dataverse’ must also 
be selected.

.. _dataset-contents:

Dataset Contents 
-------------------

Dataverse provides a metadata file called ``dataset.json`` that lists all of
the files included in the dataset as well as other descriptive metadata. 

When a dataset includes tabular data files, Dataverse creates derivative 
formats and additional metadata files. See the Dataverse guide describing how a 
`tabular data file bundle`_ works.

Archivematica detects tabular data file bundles and retrieves all derivative 
files and metadata files. 

.. _processing-datasets:

Processing Dataverse datasets
-----------------------------

Archivematica creates a Dataverse METS file to describe the contents and 
structure of the dataset as retrieved from Dataverse. Archivematica also 
creates an agents.json file, that includes details of the Dataverse instance 
configured in the Storage Service. This information is used to populate the 
Dataverse PREMIS agent details in the AIP METS. 

Fixity checks are conducted using any checksums provided by Dataverse. Other 
microservices are carried out as normal (and as configured in the processing 
configuration). The final AIP will contain descriptive metadata provided by 
Dataverse, attributes to indicate any derivatives generated by Dataverse, 
and attributes to indicate the outcome of fixity checks conducted using 
checksums provided by Dataverse.

.. _dataverse-mets:

Dataverse METS file
-------------------

Archivematica generates a Dataverse METS file that describes the contents of 
the dataset as retrieved from Dataverse. The Dataverse METS includes:

* descriptive metadata about the dataset, mapped to the `DDI standard`_

* a ``<mets:fileSec>`` section that lists all files provided, grouped by 
  type (original, metadata or derivative)

* a ``<mets:structMap>`` section that describes the structure of the files as 
  provided by Dataverse. This is particularly helpful for understanding which 
  files were provided in a `tabular data file bundle`_)

The Dataverse METS is found in the final AIP in this location: 
``<AIP Name>/data/objects/metadata/transfers/<transfer name>/METS.xml`` 
(This is also where you will find the dataset.json metadata file provided by 
Dataverse, and the agents.json metadata file created by Archivematica).

.. _dataverse-aip-mets:

AIP METS file
-------------

The Archival Information Package (AIP) METS file follows the basic structure 
for a standard Archivematica AIP METS file. Derivatives generated by Dataverse
are indicated using the METS fileGrp attribute (where ``USE =“derivative”``).

The descriptive metadata (dmdSecs) in the Dataverse METS file are copied over 
to the AIP METS file.

In the PREMIS Object entity, relationships between original and derivative 
tabular format files from Dataverse are described using PREMIS semantic units. 
A PREMIS derivation event indicates the derivative file was generated from the
original file, and a Dataverse Agent indicates the Event was carried out by 
Dataverse prior to ingest, rather than by Archivematica.

Fixity checks that use checksums provided by Dataverse are recorded as PREMIS
events using the eventOutcomeDetailNote attribute to indicate the source of 
the checksum.

.. _dataverse-configuration:

Configuration
-------------

Integration with a Dataverse repository is configured in the Storage Service. 
For detailed instructions, see the :ref:`Administrators Manual <storageservice:administrators>`.

:ref:`Back to the top <dataverse>`

.. _`Dataverse`: http://www.dataverse.org/
.. _`DDI standard`: https://www.ddialliance.org/Specification/DDI-Codebook/2.5/
.. _`tabular data file bundle`: http://guides.dataverse.org/en/latest/user/tabulardataingest/index.html
