.. _transfer:

========
Transfer
========

In Archivematica, *transfer* is the process of moving any set of digital objects
into Archivematica and turning the materials into a Submission Information
Package (SIP). The Transfer tab prepares your content for preservation in
Archivematica.

*On this page:*

* :ref:`The Transfer tab <transfer-tab>`

* :ref:`Preparing digital objects for transfer <prepare-transfer>`

  * :ref:`Transfer types <transfer-types>`
  * :ref:`Basic transfers <basic-transfers>`
  * :ref:`Transfers with descriptive and/or rights metadata <transfers-with-metadata>`
  * :ref:`Transfers with submission documentation <create-submission>`
  * :ref:`Transfers with existing checksums <transfer-checksums>`
  * :ref:`Transferring material with preservation or access derivatives (manual normalization) <transfer-derivatives>`
  * :ref:`Transferring material with access copies only <transfer-access-copies>`
  * :ref:`Transferring material with service (mezzanine) files <transfer-service-files>`

* :ref:`Processing a transfer <process-transfer>`

  * :ref:`Start a transfer <create-transfer>`
  * :ref:`Transfer tab microservices <transfer-tab-microservices>`

* :ref:`Cleaning up the Transfer tab <cleanup>`

.. _transfer-tab:

The Transfer tab
----------------

The Transfer tab is where many users begin the process of turning their digital
objects into Archival Information Packages (AIPs). On the Transfer tab, users
select the material to be preserved, name the transfer, and kick off the
transfer process.

.. image:: images/transfer-tab.*
   :align: center
   :width: 80%
   :alt: The Transfer tab is where transfers into Archivematica begin.

The section at the top of the Transfer tab is where you your materials for
transfer into Archivematica. There are four fields to fill out, as well as the
``Browse`` and ``Start transfer`` buttons and the ``Approve automatically``
checkbox.

* **Transfer type**: The kind of material being transferred. See :ref:`Transfer
  types <transfer-types>` for more information.
* **Transfer name**: A name for your transfer. This will become the name of the
  resulting Archival Information Package (AIP). This is a required field.
* **Accession no.**: Entering an accession number for your transfer will result
  in the accession number being copied into the AIP METS file as a registration
  event. It is not used for identifying or searching for the AIP within
  Archivematica. This field is optional.
* **Access system ID**: Entering an access system ID field when you are setting
  up your transfer allows you to automate the process of uploading a DIP to AtoM
  or Binder. Archivematica will automatically grab this value when it reaches
  the Upload DIP microservice. See :ref:`Upload a DIP to AtoM <upload-atom>` and
  :ref:`Upload a DIP to Binder <upload-binder>` for more information. This field
  is optional.
* **Browse**: The Browse button toggles open the transfer browser. This allows
  users to view and browse through the configured transfer source location(s).
  For more information about setting up transfer source locations that
  Archivematica can access, see :ref:`Administrator manual - Storage Service
  <storageService:administrators>`. Selecting a directory and clicking **Add**
  adds the directory of materials to the transfer.

.. image:: images/transfer-browser.*
   :align: center
   :width: 80%
   :alt: Clicking on the Browse button opens the transfer browser, a list of directories and files available for transfer into Archivematica

* **Start transfer**: Once you have given your transfer a name and selected
  material from the transfer browser, the Start transfer button kicks off the
  transfer microservices.
* **Approve automatically**: If this box is unchecked, Archivematica will pause
  at the first microservice, *Approve transfer*, and give you a chance to
  confirm that your transfer has been set up properly. If the box is checked,
  Archivematica will not pause at this step.

Once a transfer has been started, it appears below the transfer preparation
area. Several :ref:`microservices <microservices>` run on the transferred
material to prepare it to become a SIP. The list of microservices should be read
from bottom to top.

.. image:: images/transfer-microservices-1.8.*
   :align: center
   :width: 80%
   :alt: Image shows the many microservices that run on a standard transfer in Archivematica 1.8

At the end of the transfer process, the transferred material can be sent to the
:ref:`backlog <manage-backlog>`, where it can be stored until you are ready to
turn it into an AIP. The backlog also gives users a chance to carry out
:ref:`appraisal <appraisal>` tasks. Alternately, the user can turn the
transferred material into a SIP and send it along to the :ref:`Ingest <ingest>`
tab.

You can clean up the Transfer tab by removing completed or rejected transfers.
For more information, see :ref:`Cleaning up the Transfer tab <cleanup>` below.

.. _prepare-transfer:

Preparing digital objects for transfer
--------------------------------------

Archivematica is format-agnostic, meaning that it can accept any file that you
pass to the system for processing. A single transfer can be homogenous or it can
be a mix of many different formats. However, the way that your material is
structured for transfer into Archivematica can have big impacts on how it is
processed. Below, there are details about structuring your transfer to
accomplish specific digital preservation-related goals with the materials.

How quickly Archivematica can process a transfer depends on two things: the size
of the transfer (both the individual objects and the transfer as a whole) and
the transfer's complexity. Speed and efficiency of an Archivematica pipeline is
very subjective and much of it depends on the specifications of the
Archivematica instance that you are using. For more information on configuring
Archivematica to handle large and/or complex transfers, see :ref:`Scaling
Archivematica <scaling-archivematica>`.

.. _transfer-types:

Transfer types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some materials that are transferred into Archivematica require special
processing. To kick off these specialized workflows, you can select a specific
*transfer type*. There are six different transfer types available.

.. image:: images/transfer-types.*
   :align: center
   :width: 80%
   :alt: The transfer types dropdown menu on the left-hand side of the Transfer tab shows six different transfer type options

**Standard**: Standard transfers are the default in Archivematica. All materials
can be transferred using the standard transfer type. No special processing tasks
are carried out. If you're unsure which transfer type to choose, start with a
standard transfer. For more information on how standard transfers can be
structured, see :ref:`basic transfers <basic-transfers>` and subsequent
sections below.


**Unzipped bags**: Archivematica can recognize and make use of materials that
have been packaged according to the `BagIt File Packaging Format`_, colloquially
known as bags. If you are in the practice of making bags before transferring
material into Archivematica, you can continue to do so. Archivematica will
verify the bag early on in the transfer process, looking at manifest information
created during the bagging process such as checksums and the payload oxum. The
Unzipped bags transfer type can be used for bags that are not saved in a
compressed format. For more information about how Archivematica implements bags,
see :ref:`Bags <bags>`.

This screenshot shows the layout of a bagged transfer. The bagging process moves
the digital objects to be preserved to a ``data`` directory and creates various
metadata files required by the BagIt specification (i.e. ``bag-info.txt``,
``manifest-md5.txt``).

.. image:: images/bag-transfer.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A bagged transfer containing digital objects and bag metadata

**Zipped bags**: Similar to Unzipped bags, the Zipped bags transfer type can br
used for materials that have been packaged according to the
`BagIt File Packaging Format`_. The Zipped bags transfer type should be used for
bags that have been saved in a compressed (or zipped) format. Archivematica
accepts ``.zip``, ``.tgz``, or ``.tar.gz`` formats. When you switch the transfer
type to Zipped bags, only files saved as .zip, .tgz, and .tar.gz will be
available to be selected in the transfer browser. For more information about how
Archivematica implements bags, see :ref:`Bags <bags>`.

**DSpace**: When you export materials from a `DSpace`_ repository, the export is
packaged with a METS file for the export as a whole as well as each individual
item. Archivematica can reuse some of the data in these METS files. For more
information, see :ref:`DSpace <dspace>`.

**Disk image**: Selecting the disk image transfer type is not required to
preserve disk images (you can use the standard transfer type or the bag transfer
types, if your disk image is also bagged); however, it does give you an extra
disk image-specific metadata form where you can record information about the
imaging process. For more information, see :ref:`Forensic disk images
<forensic>`.

**Dataverse**: Similar to the DSpace transfer type, materials exported from a
`Dataverse`_ repository contain metadata that Archivematica can reuse. For more
information, see :ref:`Dataverse <dataverse>`.

.. _basic-transfers:

Basic transfers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section describes the basic setup for a standard transfer. If you are
planning to use any other transfer type, please see the :ref:`Transfer types
<transfer-types>` section above for more information about your transfer type.

With the exception of zipped bag transfers, Archivematica requires that all of
the materials in the transfer are contained within a top-level directory. The
directory structure of the transfer can be simple (i.e. all files located in
the same directory) or it can be nested and hierarchical.

The following screenshot shows a basic transfer called ``basicTransfer``. Four
digital objects sit within the top-level directory, while two more objects are
nested within a subdirectory.

.. image:: images/basic-transfer.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A folder called basicTransfer, which contains four top-level digital objects as well as a folder called "subdirectory" containing two more objects

The transfer can have as many subdirectories as you wish, though this may impact
processing time. The digital objects can be in any format, though what exactly
Archivematica can do with a given file format varies widely. For more
information on how Archivematica carries out file format preservation, see
:ref:`Preservation planning <preservation-planning>`.

This is the basic structure of a transfer in Archivematica; however, there are
many variations. The following sections build on the basic standard transfer to
achieve specific goals relating to the preservation of the digital objects.

.. _transfers-with-metadata:

Transfers with descriptive and/or rights metadata
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Archivematica can recognize descriptive and/or rights metadata that is included
with your transfer. As long as the metadata is in a format that Archivematica
can understand, Archivematica can parse the metadata to include it in the AIP
METS file. If you are using AtoM or ArchivesSpace, the metadata can be passed
on to these access systems for further use.

Descriptive and/or rights metadata can be added to standard, unzipped, zipped,
and disk image transfer types.

To include descriptive and/or rights metadata with your transfer, you must add a
subdirectory called ``metadata`` to the top level of the transfer. The metadata
directory named is a reserved name in Archivematica; it must not be used for
anything else.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-metadata.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a metadata subdirectory, which contains a metadata.csv and rights.csv file

For more information about importing metadata into Archivematica, including how
to structure the metadata and rights CSV files, see :ref:`Import metadata
<import-metadata>`.

Adding metadata to a bag
++++++++++++++++++++++++

See :ref:`Adding descriptive/rights metadata and submission documentation to
bags <adding-metadata-bags>` for more information.

.. _create-submission:

Transfers with submission documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Submission documentation is a concept in Archivematica that accounts for
materials that are related to the digital objects being preserved, but aren't
strictly part of the collection - for example, donor agreements, correspondence
about the materials, conservation reports, etc. If Archivematica sees that a
transfer includes submission documentation, it can include descriptions of this
material in the AIP METS file.

Submission documentation can be added to standard, unzipped, zipped, and disk
image transfer types.

To create a transfer that includes submission documentation, your top-level
directory must contain a ``metadata`` directory. Inside the metadata directory,
a nested directory called ``submissionDocumentation`` contains the submission
documentation files.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-subdocs.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a metadata subdirectory, which contains another subdirectory called submissionDocumentation

Adding submission documentation to a bag
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

See :ref:`Adding descriptive/rights metadata and submission documentation to
bags <adding-metadata-bags>` for more information.

.. _transfer-checksums:

Create a transfer with existing checksums
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Archivematica can verify MD5, SHA1, and SHA256 checksums that were created
outside of Archivematica. Creating checksums outside of Archivematica is a good
idea if you are concerned about loss of data integrity during the move into
Archivematica. Checksums are checked during the *Verify transfer checksums*
microservice on the Transfer tab.

Checksums can be added to standard, DSpace, and disk image transfer types. Note
that checksums are added to both unzipped and zipped transfer types as part of
the bag requirements.

Checksum files are placed in the ``metadata`` directory. Note that you can also
place descriptive and rights metadata CSVs in this directory, as per the
:ref:`Transfers with descriptive and/or rights metadata <transfers-with-metadata>`
section above.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-checksums.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a metadata subdirectory, which contains another subdirectory called submissionDocumentation

Checksum files should be named ``checksum.md5``, ``checksum.sha1``, or
``checksum.sha256``. The file itself should contain one line for each checksum,
beginning with the checksum, followed by a space, followed by the file name::

  2121dca88ad7f701d3f3e2d041004a56  beihai.tif
  7f42199657dea535b6ad1963a6c7a2ac  bird.mp3
  6dc1519418859ea5c20fd708e89d7254  ocr-image.png
  4737e4dacfc9510915ea58cf12e51712  View_from_lookout_over_Queenstown_towards_the_Remarkables_in_spring.jpg
  75388a532283b988f79206d63f65e9a2  subdirectory/piiTestDataCreditCardNumbers.txt
  1d7193ea3b2193c79f55ea7e645503a9  subdirectory/piiTestDataSocialSecurityNumbers.txt

If your checksum check fails, the *Verify transfer checksums* microservice will
show an error and the transfer will fail. Expanding the microservice will show
that the job *Verify metadata directory checksums* is red. To review the error,
click on the gear icon for the job.

.. important::

   If you are creating bags, checksum files will be created as part of the
   bagging process. You do not need to create checksums manually.

.. _transfer-derivatives:

Transferring material with preservation or access derivatives (manual normalization)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Archivematica's main strategy for preserving files is to :ref:`normalize
<normalize>` them according to :ref:`preservation planning rules
<preservation-planning>`. However, you may have created - or may want to create -
preservation or access copies of your digital objects before transferring your
materials into Archivematica (i.e. during a digitization project). Archivematica
can recognize manual normalization work and use the preservation and action
copies instead of creating new derivatives.

Preservation or access derivatives can be added to standard transfer types.

In order to have Archivematica recognize manually normalized files, the transfer
needs to be structured in a specific way. Your top-level directory must contain
a ``manualNormalization`` directory. Inside the manualNormalization directory,
a ``preservation`` directory is where you will store preservation derivatives
and an ``access`` directory is where you will place the access derivatives. You
can include both of these directories or just one, depending on the kinds of
derivatives that you have created.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-derivatives.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a manualNormalization subdirectory, which contains access and preservation derivatives

In the example shown above, the original files are PNGs (i.e. ``beihai.png``).
For each file, there is an access copy in the form of a JPG (``beihai.jpg``) and
a preservation copy in the form of a TIF (``beihai.tif``). Note that the base
filenames (before the extension) must match in order for Archivematica to
recognize the links between the original file and the manually normalized
preservation and access versions.

You do not need to have matches for every original file. If you only have
manually normalized derivatives for some files, Archivematica can fill in the
gaps and create any missing access or preservation derivatives during the
:ref:`normalization <normalize>` microservice.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-some-derivatives.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a manualNormalization subdirectory, which contains access and preservation derivates for only some of the originals

.. note::

   You can also add manually normalized files during the :ref:`ingest <ingest>`
   phase in Archivematica.

.. _transfer-access-copies:

Transferring material with access derivatives
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are only transferring originals plus their access derivatives, there is a
slightly more streamlined workflow than the :ref:`manual normalization
<transfer-derivatives>` option described above.

Access derivatives can be added to standard transfer types.

Inside your top-level directory, create an ``access`` subdirectory and place the
access copies of your originals inside this file.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-access-copies.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing an access subdirectory, which contains access derivatives only

In the example shown above, the original files are PNGs (i.e. ``beihai.png``).
For each file, there is an access copy in the form of a JPG (``beihai.jpg``).
Note that the base filenames (before the extension) must match in order for
Archivematica to recognize the links between the original file and access copy.

When you process this transfer, Archivematica will automatically recognize the
existence of the access copies. At the :ref:`normalization <normalize>`
microservice on the :ref:`Ingest tab <ingest>`, fewer normalization options will
appear because Archivematica will always make a Dissemination Information
Package (DIP) from the provided access copies.

.. image:: images/normalize-access-copies.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: The normalization microservice in Archivematica only provides three options - Normalize for preservation, Reject SIP, and Do not normalize - if an access directory is detected

.. _transfer-service-files:

Transferring material with service (mezzanine) files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Somewhat similar to the :ref:`manual normalization <transfer-derivatives>` and
:ref:`manual normalization <transfer-access-copies>` options described above,
Archivematica can also recognize the presence of service (or mezzanine) files.
Service files are high-quality derivatives created from the original file, which
are then used to create every other derivative. For example, during a
digitization project you may scan an image as a very high-quality TIFF, then
generate a high-quality JP2000 from the TIFF. Instead of accessing the TIFF
every time a new access derivative is required, you would then use the JP2000 to
make new copies of the file.

Service (or mezzanine) files can be added to standard transfer types.

Inside your top-level directory, create a ``service`` subdirectory and place the
service copies of your originals inside this file.

.. image:: images/transfer-with-service-files.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: A transfer containing a service subdirectory, which contains service or mezzanine copies of the originals

In the example shown above, the original files are TIFFs (i.e. ``beihai.tif``).
For each file, there is a service copy in the form of a JP2000 (``beihai.jp2``).
Note that the base filenames (before the extension) must match in order for
Archivematica to recognize the links between the original file and the service
copy.

When you process this transfer, Archivematica will automatically recognize the
existence of the service copies. At the :ref:`normalization <normalize>`
microservice on the :ref:`Ingest tab <ingest>`, you will be given the option to
use the service copies to generate access derivatives, rather than the original
files.

.. image:: images/normalize-service-files.*
   :align: center
   :width: 50%
   :alt: The normalization microservice in Archivematica provides an extra option - Normalize service files for access - if a service directory is detected

.. note::

   If you want to create access copies from your service files, select
   *Normalize service files for access* at the Normalize microservice. If you
   have included access copies as per the instructions in :ref:`Transferring
   material with access derivatives <transfer-access-copies>` above, select *Do
   not normalize* at the Normalize microservice - the DIP will be automatically
   created because Archivematica has detected the access directory.

.. _process-transfer:

Processing a transfer
---------------------

Once your material is packaged for Archivematica, you can begin the transfer
process.

.. _create-transfer:

Start a transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Sign in to Archivematica and navigate to the Transfer tab by clicking on
   ``Transfer`` or the Archivematica logo.

#. Select your :ref:`transfer type <transfer-types>` from the Transfer types
   dropdown menu.

#. Name your transfer. The transfer name will become the name of your AIP, so
   make sure that the name is meaningful.

#. If needed, also add an accession number and/or access system ID, and check or
   uncheck the ``Approve transfer`` checkbox.

#. Click **Browse** to open the transfer browser, where you can select a
   the digital object(s) you want to preserve. You can toggle between transfer
   source locations by clicking on the top bar of the transfer browser (called
   ``archivematica-sampledata`` in the screenshot below).

#. Click on the yellow folder icon to explore nested directories. To select the
   material that you want to preserve, click on the name of the folder (or .zip
   file, if you are transferring a Zipped Bag) so that it is highlighted and
   click **Add**. To close the browser, click on **Browse** again.

   .. image:: images/browse-and-add.*
      :align: center
      :width: 80%
      :alt: A folder called "Images" has been selected

#. Once you are happy with your transfer preparation, click the **Start
   transfer** button.

.. _transfer-tab-microservices:

Transfer tab microservices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once you click on **Start transfer**, the transfer should appear below the
transfer preparation area. This should only take a few seconds, though there
might be a longer delay if the transfer is very large. If the transfer never
appears, do not try to start another transfer - instead, contact your systems
administrator as it is possible that you have run out of processing space and
starting another new transfer will only compound the issue.

Each microservice in the Transfer tab is carrying out some step towards
preparing your material to become a Submission Information Package (SIP) and
then an Archival Information Package (AIP). For more information about
Archivematica's microservice architecture, please see :ref:`microservices
<microservices>`.

Some microservices occur with no human intervention, while others will prompt
the user for a decision. An early example is the *Identify file format*
microservice, which prompts the user to decide which tool to use to identify
file formats.

.. figure:: images/select-file-id-tool.*
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 60%
   :width: 100%
   :alt: For the Identify file format microservice, the user is given the option between various file ID tools

Note that it is possible to automate all decision points in Archivematica. For
more information, see :ref:`Processing configuration <dashboard-processing>`.

The microservices that run on the Transfer tab include:

* **Verify transfer compliance**: verifies that the transfer is properly
  structured according to the requirements of the transfer type.

* **Rename with transfer UUID**: assigns a unique universal identifier for the
  transfer as a whole.

* **Assign file UUIDs and checksums to objects**: assigns a unique universal
  identifier and checksums to each digital object.

* **Verify transfer checksums**: verifies any :ref:`checksums included with the
  transfer <transfer-checksums>`.

* **Generate METS.xml document**: creates a METS file capturing the original
  order of the transfer. This METS file is added to any SIPs generated from
  this transfer.

* **Quarantine**: quarantines the transfer for a set duration. Sending the
  transfer to quarantine can give you a chance to update virus definitions
  before the transfer is scanned for viruses.

* **Scan for viruses**: scans for viruses and malware. For more information, see
  :ref:`Scan for viruses <scan-for-viruses>`.

* **Generate transfer structure report**: generates a directory tree of the
  original transfer and places as a text file in the AIP.

* **Clean up names**: removes prohibited characters from folder and filenames,
  such as ampersands. For more information, see :ref:`Clean up names
  <clean-up-names>`.

* **Identify file format**: allows the user to choose between various format
  identification tools, or to skip format identification at this stage. See
  :ref:`Identification <identification>` for more information.

* **Extract packages**: extracts contents from zipped or otherwise packaged
  files. See :ref:`Extraction <extraction>` for more information.

* **Characterize and extract metadata**: extracts technical metadata embedded in
  the files. See :ref:`Characterization <characterization>` for more
  information.

* **Validation**: validates file formats against the format's specification. See
  :ref:`Validation <validation>` for more information.

* **Examine contents**: runs `Bulk Extractor`_.

* **Create SIP from transfer**: gives users the chance to send the transfer to
  the :ref:`Backlog tab <manage-backlog>`, where it can be stored for processing
  later. Using the backlog also gives users a chance to carry out
  :ref:`appraisal <appraisal>` tasks. Alternately, the user can turn the
  transferred material into a SIP and send it along to the :ref:`Ingest
  <ingest>` tab. The transfer can also be rejected at this point.

.. image:: images/create-sip.*
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :alt: A transfer that is ready to be packaged into a SIP or stored in backlog

.. note::

  If you are running :ref:`Archivematica without Elasticsearch
  <install-elasticsearch>`, you may not have the option to send the transfer to
  the backlog.

A transfer that is in the middle of processing will show which microservices
have been completed (green) and which are in progress (orange). When a
microservice fails or encounters an error, the microservice background turns
from green to pink and a "failed" icon appears next to the transfer or SIP name.
See :ref:`Error handling <error-handling>` for more information about how to
handle an error.

.. _cleanup:

Cleaning up the transfer dashboard
----------------------------------

The dashboard in the Transfer tab should be cleaned up from time to time. As the
list of transfers grows, it takes Archivematica longer and longer to parse this
information which can create browser timeout issues.

Remove a single transfer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Ensure that the transfer you want to remove doesn't require any user input.
   You must complete all user inputs and either complete the transfer (i.e.
   send to backlog or create a SIP) or reject the transfer before it can be
   removed from the dashboard.

#. When you are ready to remove a transfer from the dashboard, click the red
   circle icon to the right of the transfer name.

#. Click the Confirm button to remove the transfer from the dashboard.

.. figure:: images/delete-single-transfer.*
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 60%
   :width: 100%
   :alt: Remove a single transfer from the dashboard

.. NOTE::
   This does not delete the transfer or related entities, including the source
   directory. It merely removes them from view on the dashboard.

Remove all completed transfers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Ensure that the transfers you want to remove are complete (i.e. sent to
   backlog or ingest). Note that this feature only works on completed transfers;
   rejected transfers will have to be removed one at a time.

#. When you are ready to remove all completed transfers, click the red circle
   icon in the table header of the list of transfers.

#. Click the Confirm button to remove all completed transfers from the
   dashboard.

.. figure:: images/delete-all-transfers.*
  :align: center
  :figwidth: 60%
  :width: 100%
  :alt: Remove all transfers from the dashboard.

:ref:`Back to the top <transfer>`

.. _`BagIt File Packaging Format`: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8493
.. _`DSpace`: https://duraspace.org/dspace/
.. _`Dataverse`: https://dataverse.org/
.. _`Bulk Extractor`: https://www.forensicswiki.org/wiki/Bulk_extractor
